Source: https://parade.com/living/things-people-think-are-gaslighting-but-arent-according-to-psychologists

175 Best Controversial Questions

1. Should cigarette smoking and vaping be completely banned?
2. Do animals deserve legal protections?
3. Is the development of artificial intelligence dangerous to society?
4. Is there a correlation between violent video games and real-world violence?
5. Should parents or other adults be able to ban books from schools and libraries?
6. Would taxing unhealthy foods help fight obesity?
7. Is gambling harmful to society, and should it be banned?
8. Are GMOs more helpful than harmful?
9. Should the driving age be raised to 18?
10. Is cancel culture good for society?

Social Issues Controversial Questions

11. Should the death penalty be abolished?
12. Will stricter gun control laws help prevent mass shootings?
13. Should convicted felons be allowed to vote after serving their time in prison?
14. Should the path to American citizenship be easier?
15. Should abortion be illegal?
16. Should immigrants be automatically deported, despite how long they've been in the country?
17. Is the gender pay gap the result of discrimination or other factors?
18. Should recreational marijuana use be legalized nationwide?
19. Is solitary confinement in prisons a human rights violation?
20. Should tech companies do more to combat cyberbullying?

U.S. Political Controversial Questions

21. Should the voting age be lowered or raised?
22. Is the two-party system in the US still effective or does it need major reform?
23. Should voting be mandatory?
24. Should the United States increase or decrease its military spending and global military presence?
25. Should the Electoral College system be abolished in favor of a popular vote for presidential elections?
26. Should election day be a public holiday and businesses be mandated to give their employees time off to vote?
27. Should all states be open primary?
28. Should Supreme Court judges be appointed for fixed terms?
29. Do gun safety laws infringe on the Second Amendment?
30. Should members of Congress have term limits?

Controversial Questions About the Economy

31. Is capitalism the best economic system?
32. Is the local minimum wage truly a living wage?
33. Should minimum wage laws be increased?
34. Should cryptocurrencies be better regulated?
35. Is a flat tax system preferable to a progressive tax system?
36. Can guaranteed minimum income ruin the economy?
37. Is the gig economy as a whole beneficial to workers or exploitative?

Education Controversial Questions

38. Should college education be free?
39. Are private schools better than public schools?
40. Does classroom technology enhance learning?
41. Are standardized tests effective in measuring a student's abilities?
42. Should schools eliminate dress codes?
43. Should charter schools receive public school funding?
44. Is year-round schooling better for students?
45. Does religion have any place in public schools?
46. Is teaching cursive important to kids in school?
47. Should schools be allowed to teach critical race theory?
48. Is in-person school better than online school?
49. Are single-gender schools better for students?
50. Is homeschooling good for children?
51. Should schools allow students to use cell phones throughout the day?
52. Should schools have surveillance cameras in classrooms and hallways?

Environmental Controversial Questions

53. Can alternative energy replace fossil fuels?
54. Are electric vehicles better than gas-fueled vehicles?
55. Should we ban plastic bottles and bags?
56. Is climate change primarily caused by human activity?
57. Should offshore oil drilling be expanded or reduced along US coastlines?
58. Should governments prioritize environmental protection over economic growth?
59. Is nuclear energy a viable solution to fight climate change?
60. Should ecotourism that disturbs natural habitats be more regulated?
61. Should fracking be banned?
62. How effective are carbon taxes at controlling carbon emissions?
63. Should major cities ban cars from city centers?
64. Should solar panels be mandatory for all new home constructions?
65. Should the preservation of endangered species be prioritized?
66. Should there be limits on the exploitation of natural resources?
67. Should national parks raise entry fees to fund conservation projects?
68. Is reforestation efficient in reducing global warming?

Legal & Criminal Justice Controversial Questions

69. Should non-violent drug offenses carry mandatory minimum sentences?
70. Should prisons focus more on rehabilitation or punishment?
71. Does the bail system unfairly penalize low-income defendants?
72. Should the U.S. continue using privatized prisons?
73. Should juveniles be tried and sentenced as adults for serious crimes?
74. What measures should be taken to ensure the humane treatment of incarcerated individuals?
75. How can law enforcement agencies address concerns about bias and use of force?
76. What role should judges have in determining sentencing?
77. Should prisoners have voting rights?
78. How do perceptions of police impact public safety?
79. To what extent does mental illness contribute to criminal behavior?
80. Should doxing be classified as a criminal offense?
81. How have private prisons influenced incarceration rates, sentencing practices and prison management over time?
82. Should citizens help police via neighborhood patrolling?
83. Should all police officers be required to wear body cameras?

Business & Industry Controversial Questions

84. How much of a role should unions play in the U.S.?
85. Should CEOs' compensation be capped or regulated?
86. Should false advertising face stricter regulations?
87. Should corporations prioritize profits or social responsibility?
88. Should companies be held accountable for environmental pollution?
89. Is there a need for more diversity and inclusion in corporate leadership positions?
90. Should the government punish companies that use child labor?
91. Should companies have the right to collect and monetize user data without explicit consent?
92. Is outsourcing labor to countries with lower wages ethical or exploitative?
93. How involved should the government be in the private sector?
94. Should sports teams be publicly owned by the city, or owned by individuals?
95. Should tech giants, like Facebook and Amazon, be broken up for being monopolies?
96. Should corporations fund local infrastructure and services to offset impacts?
97. Are there any industries that should only be owned by the government due to public safety concerns?
98. Is there a need for stronger protections for whistleblowers who expose corporate wrongdoing?
99. Should insider trading regulations be more strictly enforced on Wall Street?
100. Should there be limits on corporate lobbying and influence in politics?
101. Should unpaid internships be made illegal in all industries?

Controversial Questions About Healthcare

102. Is universal government-sponsored healthcare a good idea?
103. Should vaccines be mandatory?
104. Should everyone have access to healthcare?
105. Should prescription drug prices be regulated?
106. Does privatized healthcare inhibit patients' access to affordable treatment?
107. Should figures in power have to disclose their health status?
108. Should the United States allow the import of prescription drugs from other countries?
109. Should healthcare be considered a human right?
110. Should employers be able to require flu shots for all employees?
111. Should parents who refuse to vaccinate their kids be punished?
112. Should research on cloned human embryos be allowed?
113. Is there a need to reform medical malpractice laws?
114. Is there a need for stricter regulation of medical devices and implants to ensure patient safety?
115. Is there a role for alternative medicine in mainstream healthcare?
116. Should the United States adopt a single-payer universal healthcare system?
117. Should pharmaceutical companies be allowed to advertise prescription drugs on TV/radio?
118. Is the use of animals in medical research ethical?
119. Is obesity a disease or a personal responsibility?

Ethics and Morality Controversial Questions

120. Are extremely unequal distributions of wealth inherently unethical?
121. Is it acceptable to lie or deceive others in certain situations to prevent harm or promote a greater good?
122. Should genetic engineering be used to enhance human abilities or traits?
123. Is it morally acceptable to use violence in defense of oneself or others?
124. Should there be limits on freedom of speech, particularly when it comes to hate speech?
125. Is it morally acceptable to consume products that are produced through unfair labor practices?
126. If AI became self-aware, should it be given the same rights as humans?
127. Does the death penalty violate moral standards regardless of the crime?
128. Should charities be required to publicly release what they spend donated money on?
129. Should individuals have the right to refuse medical treatment or procedures based on religious beliefs?
130. Is it ethical to engage in surveillance and data collection for national security purposes?
131. Should individuals be held responsible for their actions if they were under the influence of drugs or alcohol?
132. Do corporations have any moral obligations beyond profitability?
133. Is it ethical to use artificial intelligence and autonomous systems in warfare?
134. Is it ethical to prioritize the well-being of humans over other sentient beings, such as animals?
135. Should parents have the right to make decisions about their children's medical treatments, even if it goes against medical advice?

Pop Culture Controversial Questions

136. Should celebrities and influencers be required to disclose paid content on social media?
137. Does reality television portray a distorted version of reality?
138. Does cancel culture promote accountability or mob mentality?
139. Is writing fanfiction a form of creative expression or violating the intellectual property of authors?
140. Is it unethical for actors and actresses to play characters of different races and ethnicities?
141. Should video games have restrictions on the content they portray?
142. Is the use of CGI and digital manipulation in films and photography misleading?
143. Should you brush your teeth before or after breakfast?
144. Should celebrities be allowed to profit from their personal lives?
145. Is there a need for more regulation of the beauty and cosmetic industry?
146. Is cosplay a form of cultural appropriation?
147. Is a hot dog a sandwich?
148. Is it ethical for reality television shows to exploit personal drama and conflict for entertainment purposes?
149. Is there a need for more diversity and representation in mainstream media?
150. Should movies and television shows depict sensitive topics?
151. Should celebrities and influencers use their platforms to advocate for political and social issues?
152. Should public figures be held accountable for past behaviors?
153. Does there need to be stricter social media regulations?
154. Should authors and creators be held accountable for problematic content in their works?
155. Should TikTok be banned in the United States?

Diet and Nutrition Controversial Questions

156. Are low-calorie sweeteners a better alternative than sugar?
157. Does corporate funding bias health research on sugar, fats and processed foods?
158. Is a plant-based vegan diet healthier than eating meat and other animal products?
159. Should junk food advertising to children be restricted?
160. Should manufacturers be required to label foods containing GMOs?
161. Is intermittent fasting a safe and effective way to manage weight and improve health?
162. Is breakfast truly the most important meal of the day?
163. Should growth hormone and antibiotic use in livestock be banned?
164. Does eating a large amount of eggs impact cholesterol levels?
165. Is the keto diet a healthy way to lose weight?
166. Does processed meat contribute to cancer any more than other processed foods?
167. Should all school meals meet certain nutritional standards?
168. Is organic food worth the higher cost, or are conventional foods equally nutritious and safe?
169. Is a gluten-free diet a healthier alternative?
170. Should Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits be restricted to only nutritious food?
171. Should restaurants eliminate kid's menus with unhealthy options?
172. Is there a link between poverty and poor health?
173. Should diet pills be banned?
174. Is grass-fed meat healthier than grain-fed meat?
175. Should food labeling include more information about the environmental impact of products?
